Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a drama, sci-fi
film called "A.I.
Artificial Intelligence."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the 22nd century, global warming causes
a staggering rise in sea levels, wiping out
coastal cities worldwide.
Millions are displaced, and the erratic climate
causes famine worldwide.
The few surviving and prospering governments
implement licensing pregnancy to minimize
overpopulation.
To compensate for the world's need for manpower,
robots or mecha are created.
As mechas do not require as many resources
to survive as humans do, they become necessary
in society.
Artificial intelligence inventor Professor
Allen Hobby demonstrates the progress of a
mecha's intelligence; how it's programmed
to react to damage or pain and to remember
to avoid the cause of damage, much like a
human would.
But this does not mimic a human's emotion,
which brings Professor Hobby to the next phase
of his project: a robot child programmed to
love its parents, among other complex emotions.
The mecha child will be marketed to couples
who yearn for a child but cannot obtain the
license to reproduce.
Twenty months after the presentation, married
couple Henry and Monica Swinton visit their
son, Martin, in the hospital.
After contracting a rare disease, Martin was
placed under suspended animation until a cure
is found.
Martin's doctor, Dr. Fraiser, worries for
Monica, who still hopes that Martin will recover.
He advises Henry to help Monica cope with
her grief, as she's currently suppressing
it under false hope.
Hoping that this will help Monica move on,
Henry applies to Cybertronics' beta-testing
and gets hand-picked by Professor Hobby to
test their latest invention, David.
David is a prototype Mecha child programmed
to experience love.
Horrified and offended, Monica argues to Henry,
thinking that he's trying to replace Martin
with a mecha.
But upon realizing that she needs to fill
a hole in her heart, Monica entertains the
idea of being able to take care of a child
again, even if it's a mecha.
Getting her on board with the idea, Henry
explains how the imprinting protocol works.
Once they decide to keep David, they can choose
to activate his imprinting, making David loyal
to them, akin to loving a parent.
The imprinting is irreversible; therefore,
if the couple decides to return David, he
will be scrapped.
He presses the importance that they shouldn't
imprint until they are sure.
That evening, Monica and Henry allow David
into Martin's old room.
David is eager to please his parents, but
remembering that he's not real makes Monica
uncomfortable, shutting the door on him when
he asks to be dressed by her.
In the morning, David watches Monica prepare
breakfast curiously.
Monica tries to ignore him for the rest of
the day, but David continues to watch her
around the house.
Frustrated, Monica puts him away in the closet.
Minutes later, Monica feels guilty and opens
the closet for David.
She excuses that they're playing hide and
seek before sending him to his room to play
alone.
At dinner, David watches the couple eat, fascinated
at their actions.
The child pretends to drink from an empty
glass to mimic Henry, then copies Monica as
she eats pasta.
When noodles get stuck out over Monica's lips,
David lets out a loud laugh that startles
the two.
The sudden outburst has the parents laughing
along, finally experiencing the joy of having
a child again.
That evening, Monica preps David for bed,
carefully tending to him as she would to her
real son.
She looks at him lovingly but remembers Martin
in the hospital.
A tear falls down her cheek, conflicted between
grief and guilt.
The following morning, Monica performs the
imprinting protocol, accepting that she needs
David to cope with Martin's condition.
Her voice cracks as she says the code to trigger
David's love for her.
As she finishes, David's face changes from
an innocent smile to wonderment.
For the first time, David calls Monica "mommy."
Hearing this, Monica grows attached to David.
One night, Monica is giddy as she prepares
to attend an event with Henry.
Heading down the stairs, Henry worries about
Monica's affection for David, reminding her
that he's a mecha, but Monica sees David as
a gift.
David comes down the stairs to see them off,
but the parents realize that he has used up
Monica's expensive perfume.
While Monica looks solemnly at the empty perfume
bottle, she confirms to David that she will
die eventually, leaving him alone.
Not wanting David to feel alone, Monica takes
an old robotic bear that used to be Martin's.
Monica gives the bear, Teddy, to David to
keep him company while they're away.
One morning, David shows Monica that he can
relay the audio from her telephone, turning
himself into a speaker.
On the other end of the line, Henry demands
for Monica, not hearing her due to David's
speaker mode.
David finally hands over the phone, where
Monica receives urgent news.
After a few days, Monica introduces David
to Martin, who has woken up from his suspended
sleep, cured of his rare disease.
As the days go by, Martin treats David like
a toy, asking him to perform things and questioning
how he was made.
When asked for the first thing he remembers,
David draws a bird with feathers sticking
out of the tail.
One afternoon, Martin requests for Monica
to read Pinocchio to him and David, secretly
hoping to taunt David with the story.
Instead, David is fascinated by the idea of
a puppet turning into a real boy.
During lunch, Martin teases David into an
eating contest.
Monica and Henry panic, knowing that the act
could break David, but the boys don't listen
to their warnings.
Finally, David stops as one side of his face
droops, frightening the family.
David is taken for repairs while Monica holds
his hand.
Jealous of how his mother worries for David,
Martin tricks David into secretly cutting
Monica's hair while she's asleep, telling
him that she will love him if he does so.
Despite David's objection, Martin manipulates
him until he agrees.
David goes into the parents' bedroom to cut
Monica's hair with a scissor.
But Monica turns, nearly getting scratched
by the blades.
Henry shakes David angrily, demanding why
he did it until Monica stops him.
While setting up Martin's birthday party,
Henry desperately convinces Monica that David
is no longer worth the risk.
Monica defends David, still seeing him as
a child that makes mistakes.
At the pool party, Martin's friends taunt
David and use a knife to test him.
This triggers David's defense programming,
making him hug Martin, the only human he feels
safe with while backing away from the other
boys.
But David backs away too far and drags Martin
to the bottom of the pool.
The adults pry Martin off of David's arms
and resuscitate him.
David watches from the bottom of the pool
as the adults take Martin away, leaving him
alone.
Because of the event, Monica becomes wary
of David.
Monica sees David's letters to her, further
complicating her feelings towards him.
But she has no choice.
Monica tells David that they go on a trip
with Teddy the next day.
David is overjoyed at the idea of spending
time with his mother.
On the following day, Monica is in tears as
she drives to Cybertronics to have David be
destroyed.
Overcome with guilt, she diverts the car into
the woods, where David happily sets up a picnic
mat for them.
Monica stops him, revealing that she has to
leave him for good.
Finally processing her words, David begs and
apologizes for everything he'd done.
He asks if he can come home after becoming
a real boy like Pinocchio, but those stories
are not real.
Before leaving, Monica gives David some money
and tells him not to be caught by Cybertronics
and other people.
When David doesn't let her go, Monica shoves
him, startling herself and the boy.
Monica apologizes before driving away.
David watches the car as it leaves.
In Rouge City, a mecha named Joe comforts
his client before spending an intimate night
with her.
After the act, Joe happily skips through town
as he makes his way to his next client.
The hotel owner advises Joe to show his operating
license badge as the Flesh Fair is hunting
for stray mechas in town.
Joe changes his hair to blonde before entering
the room where his client waits.
He sits next to her but finds the bed wet
with blood.
Another man appears in the room, revealing
himself as the one who killed the woman.
Realizing that he's been set up, Joe hides
in an alley and removes his operating license
badge so he can't be traced.
Out in the woods, David tells Teddy that he
wants the Blue Fairy from the Pinocchio story
to turn him into a real boy.
They stop when a truck dumps scrap parts that
abandoned mechas search through to repair
themselves.
Joe walks into the scene with a moon-like
aircraft appearing behind him.
The mechas run in fear as the Flesh Fair hunts
them down.
The group finds Joe among the crowd, interested
in getting an unlicensed new model mecha for
their show.
Motorists chase after David and other mechas
into a derelict town, firing magnetic discs
to trap them.
David follows some mechas into an abandoned
cottage and meets a nanny mecha, who offers
to care for him.
The motorists find and take them, along with
Joe.
While they're hoisted up, David tries to hold
onto Teddy, but he falls.
Branches break Teddy's fall, allowing him
to land safely and chase after David.
At the Flesh Fair, Teddy is picked up and
taken to the lost and found.
Outside, the crowd cheers as old and abandoned
mechas are destroyed.
Afraid, David holds onto Joe's hand, who's
surprised at the boy's touch.
Teddy escapes the lost and found, finding
David in a cage.
A little girl picks up Teddy and sees David,
thinking that he's a real boy.
The little girl approaches her father, who's
one of the programmers of the show.
The father is alarmed upon hearing that a
boy is among the mechas.
Back at the cage, David learns from the other
mechas that the humans are cutting them down
to maintain superiority.
The girl's father approaches David and uses
a portable x-ray to make sure that David is
a mecha.
The father is startled, fascinated by David,
but the showrunner is not amused.
While the two men talk, David watches the
nanny mecha get doused in acid as part of
a game.
The showrunner insists on putting David on
the show, despite the girl's father's claims
that he's too valuable to destroy.
The showrunner takes David, who grabs hold
of Joe's hand for safety.
David and Joe are dragged into the field and
into the acid trap.
The showrunner presents David to the crowd,
ranting about how the mecha child insults
the human population.
But the crowd turns silent, conflicted upon
seeing a child on stage.
When acid falls onto David's shoulders, he
screams in fear.
Hearing his cries, the crowd is convinced
that David is a real child, horrified that
the show will harm him.
The crowd turns on the showrunner, throwing
at him instead of David.
The others free David just before the crowd
riots, allowing David and Joe to leave the
fair safely.
In Professor Hobby's office, various photos
of David growing up reveal that he's designed
from Professor Hobby's late son.
The team reports that David was spotted at
the Flesh Fair, assuring the professor that
he escaped safely.
While walking in the woods, David and Teddy
freeze upon seeing the moon, thinking that
it's the Flesh Fair's aircraft.
They take a different route just in case.
When Joe learns about David's quest to find
the Blue Fairy, he tells him that most women
can be found in Rouge City.
Joe and David plan to head to Rouge City to
ask Dr. Know about the Blue Fairy.
To give them a ride to Rouge City, Joe tempts
a group of teenagers to meet mecha women.
Once there, Joe gives David a tour of the
neon-filled city.
Fascinated by a statue of an angel, David
approaches a church, thinking that the angel
is the Blue Fairy.
Joe takes him instead to Dr. Know, a program
that serves as an all-knowing encyclopedia.
Using the money Monica gave him, David learns
from Dr. Know that the Blue Fairy is at the
end of the world, quoting a passage by Professor
Hobby.
Joe is troubled, knowing that mechas who go
to the end of the world never come back.
Joe tries to convince David that humans hate
them, but David insists that Monica will love
him if he's a real boy.
But according to Joe, a human can never love
a mecha.
Upon leaving Dr. Know's store, police take
away Joe, believing that he ended the life
of his previous client.
Curious, David hops into the helicopter's
driver's seat and powers it on.
His reckless driving causes chaos that allows
Joe to escape.
Joe jumps inside the helicopter, driving the
vehicle for David.
With Joe driving the helicopter, they reach
the wasteland that was previously Manhattan.
After the sea level rose exponentially, the
city is left in ruins and underwater.
David finds lions statues with water pouring
out of their mouths, remembering Dr. Know's
message about the crying lions.
Setting down the helicopter in the building
next to the lions, David and Joe search for
Professor Hobby.
Full of hope, David enters an office and approaches
a chair that's turned away.
But instead of Professor Hobby, David finds
a child who looks exactly like him.
The other David smiles at him and invites
him to read with him.
Thinking that this other David will replace
him, David smashes a lamp against the table
and the other David's head, revealing that
it's also a mecha.
Joe leaves out of fear as David lashes out,
screaming that he's special and unique until
Professor Hobby stops him.
The kind professor assures David that he's
a real boy, claiming that he is his Blue Fairy.
Dr. Know's clues on finding the Blue Fairy
were explicitly made to lead David to Professor
Hobby.
The journey also tested David's emotions and
how his motivation will lead him to chase
an unknown dream, which other mechas cannot
do.
Professor Hobby walks out of the office to
gather his team, leaving David pondering about
his journey being part of someone else's design.
David enters the other room, finding several
mechas that look like him.
He approaches a window and sees the bird he
remembers as his first memory; a statue outside
the office.
Several boxes are laid out as David, and his
female counterpart, Arlene, are mass-produced
to be sold.
Realizing that he was never unique, David
heads outside and drops into the water as
Joe watches from the helicopter.
Underwater, a school of fishes carries David
until he falls in front of something that
catches his attention.
He reaches out, but Joe finds him and pulls
him away using the helicopter's extended arm.
Once above water, David reveals that he found
the Blue Fairy underwater.
Before they can go further, Joe is magnetized
by a police helicopter hovering above them.
Joe says goodbye to David, asking him to tell
his story to the ladies once he's grown up
as a real boy.
Joe activates the helicopter's submarine mode
before floating away.
Driven to find the Blue Fairy, David navigates
the helicopter-turned-submarine into an abandoned
carnival with Teddy beside him.
His impaired driving causes him to trip some
wires that loosen the Ferris Wheel.
Just as David finds the Blue Fairy statue,
the Ferris Wheel collapses on top of the helicopter,
trapping them.
David's eyes focus on the Blue Fairy, unconcerned
that they are trapped.
David pleads for the Blue Fairy to turn him
into a real boy as the years go by.
Even when the lights in the vehicle die down
and the sea creatures perish, the Blue Fairy
stands still, smiling as David's glimmer of
hope.
Two thousand years later, the world is enveloped
in ice and snow.
The humans have long gone.
An alien spacecraft tours the city of Manhattan
as they colonize the planet.
There, they retrieve David's helicopter, finding
the boy and Teddy in the ice.
Once reactivated, David convulses before spotting
the Blue Fairy in front of him.
He slides out of the helicopter and approaches
the frozen statue as the alien creatures watch
him.
David touches the Blue Fairy, causing it to
crack and break in front of him.
Only then does the spell break, and David
notices his surroundings.
Knowing that he lived with humans, the aliens
scan David's memory to understand him and
the planet better.
When David comes to, he's sitting at the dining
table in Monica's house.
The home is just like how he remembers it.
David eagerly searches for Monica, announcing
that he's home.
Instead, a different voice calls his name.
David finds the Blue Fairy, now alive and
talking.
David asks her to turn him into a real boy,
but she admits that she cannot do so.
The aliens use the Blue Fairy to speak to
David, informing him that Monica is long gone.
David mourns, learning that the Blue Fairy
cannot bring Monica back either, as all organic
parts of her are long gone as well.
Teddy approaches the two, reminding David
of the time he cut Monica's hair.
Teddy reveals that he kept the lock of hair
that David cut from Monica.
Now, the aliens can bring back his mother.
In his old bedroom, David fondly remembers
Joe while Teddy repairs himself.
They see a figure at the door, thinking that
it's Monica.
Instead, it's one of the aliens who conveys
its fascination with human beings.
The aliens wished to bring back the humans,
using organic traces to clone them.
But it remains imperfect, as the clones only
live for one day.
This means that if they bring Monica back,
it will only be for one day.
David holds onto hope that Monica will be
special like him, that she will last forever
just like he did after being trapped in the
helicopter.
Choosing to have his mother even just for
a day, David heads to her bedroom and finds
Monica in bed.
He gazes at her fondly, brushing hair from
her face as tears stream down David's cheeks.
When Monica wakes up, she greets him with
a warm smile.
For this one day, David and Monica spend time
together.
David happily shows Monica paintings of his
journey, plays hide and seek with her and
Teddy, and celebrates his birthday.
When the lights outside grow dim, David tucks
Monica to bed, worried that she will not wake
up after.
Hearing her say that she loved him, David
smiles in both grief and joy.
Feeling content, David decides to sleep next
to his beloved mother, reaching his dreams
for the first time in his life.